webapp/README.md, before:

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/MolSSI/qikpropservice/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/MolSSI/qikpropservice)

MolSSI QikProp As A Service
===========================

A repository for serving QikProp v3 as a webservice and API access point.
 
This version of QikProp has been provided by [William L. Jorgensen](http://zarbi.chem.yale.edu) and hosted as
a service by the [Molecular Sciences Software Institute (MolSSI)](https://molssi.org/). To report a
problem or suggest improvements, please open an issue on
[the Project GitHub](https://github.com/MolSSI/qikpropservice). Additional features and options will be
added over time.

There are two main components for this project:
* A web application where data can be uploaded in the form, and provides the endpoint for the API
* A standalone API wrapper for CLI calls to the service hosted through the web app

How to run and use the Web App for development
==============================================

The web app exists in the `webapp` folder of this repository.

### 1- Install Python requirements:

Run in shell, create python env, and install requirements:

```bash
conda create -n qikpropservice 
conda activate qikpropservice
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


### 2- Install JavaScript requirements:

Next, install Node (front-end), and install JS requirements, 
which will be fetched from package.json automatically. In Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install nodejs
cd webapp/app/static
npm install
```

### 3- Database setup

1. Install mongodb based on your operating system from 
https://docs.mongodb.com/guides/server/install/

2. Create a `webapp/.env` file, and add your DB URI to the config file:
```.env
MONGO_URI='mongodb://usr_username:user_password@localhost:27017/qikpropservice_db'
```

Replace `user_username` and `user_password` with your own values from your installation. 
You **don't** have to create a database after your install mongodb because the application will do
 it later.


Note: In the future when you need to, add PUBLICLY shared environment attributes to `.flaskenv` file, with key values that will be exported to the environment (dev, prod, etc).
Use `.env` file for private variables that won't be shared or pushed to Github. Note that `.env` overrides `.flaskenv`, and both override `config.py`.



### 4- Run the local server

To run the website locally, use: 

```bash
flask run
```


## To Use Docker Compose (instead of the above steps):

Run docker-compose directly, or optionally, change any desired environment variables by creating 
a `.env` file which will be read automatically by docker-compose.

** It is very important to make sure that the shared folder has the right user NOT root owner. **

```bash
# create the host volume folder with non-root access
mkdir docker_data
chown -R myUser:myUse docker_data
# clean unused docker images and containers
./dockerclean.sh
# build and run containers
docker-compose up --build 
```

## More resources:

1. For Docker deployment config example, check this
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-flask-with-mongodb-and-docker

2. A service file has been included for getting this running as a service. See this url for more details
https://community.hetzner.com/tutorials/docker-compose-as-systemd-service

Commit message:

Finish updating README files Added docstrings to the Python library Updated notes Cleaned up manifest Wrote helper script for pushing the "version" to the server running in docker containers
Ready to go.

webapp/README.md, after:

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/MolSSI/qikpropservice/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/MolSSI/qikpropservice)

MolSSI QikProp As A Service Web App
===========================

The web server for providing QikProp v3 as a webservice and API access point.
 
This version of QikProp has been provided by [William L. Jorgensen](http://zarbi.chem.yale.edu) and hosted as
a service by the [Molecular Sciences Software Institute (MolSSI)](https://molssi.org/). To report a
problem or suggest improvements, please open an issue on
[the Project GitHub](https://github.com/MolSSI/qikpropservice). Additional features and options will be
added over time.

This package is the web application where data can be uploaded in the form, and provides the endpoint for the API. The 
web app will not be bundled as a distributed package on services such as PyPI or Conda because 
it requires access to the specific QikProp binaries it expects. 

For direct information regarding the CLI and library tool, please see 
[the Project GitHub](https://github.com/MolSSI/qikpropservice).

How to run and use the Web App for development
==============================================

The web app exists in the `webapp` folder of this repository.

### 1- Install Python requirements:

Run in shell, create python env, and install requirements:

```bash
conda create -n qikpropservice 
conda activate qikpropservice
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


### 2- Install JavaScript requirements:

Next, install Node (front-end), and install JS requirements, 
which will be fetched from package.json automatically. In Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install nodejs
cd webapp/app/static
npm install
```

### 3- Database setup

1. Install mongodb based on your operating system from 
https://docs.mongodb.com/guides/server/install/

2. Create a `webapp/.env` file, and add your DB URI to the config file:
```.env
MONGO_URI='mongodb://usr_username:user_password@localhost:27017/qikpropservice_db'
```

Replace `user_username` and `user_password` with your own values from your installation. 
You **don't** have to create a database after your install mongodb because the application will do
 it later.


Note: In the future when you need to, add PUBLICLY shared environment attributes to `.flaskenv` file, with key values that will be exported to the environment (dev, prod, etc).
Use `.env` file for private variables that won't be shared or pushed to Github. Note that `.env` overrides `.flaskenv`, and both override `config.py`.



### 4- Run the local server

To run the website locally, use: 

```bash
flask run
```


## To Use Docker Compose (instead of the above steps):

Run docker-compose directly, or optionally, change any desired environment variables by creating 
a `.env` file which will be read automatically by docker-compose.

** It is very important to make sure that the shared folder has the right user NOT root owner. **

```bash
# create the host volume folder with non-root access
mkdir docker_data
chown -R myUser:myUse docker_data
# clean unused docker images and containers
./dockerclean.sh
# build and run containers
docker-compose up --build 
```

## More resources:

1. For Docker deployment config example, check this
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-flask-with-mongodb-and-docker

2. A service file has been included for getting this running as a service. See this url for more details
https://community.hetzner.com/tutorials/docker-compose-as-systemd-service
